Automaton: An automaton (Automata in plural) is an abstract self-propelled computing device which follows a 
predetermined sequence of operations automatically. An automaton with a finite number of states is called 
a Finite Automaton (FA) or Finite State Machine (FSM). An automaton in which the output depends only on the 
states of the machine is called a Moore machine. An automaton in. which the output depends on the state as 
well as on the input at any instant of time is called a Mealy machine.
A finite automaton can be of two types:
1. Non-Deterministic Finite Automaton
2. Deterministic Finite Automaton

In NDFA, for a particular input symbol, the machine can move to any combination of the states in the machine. 
In other words, the exact state to which the machine moves cannot be determined. 
Hence, it is called Non-deterministic Automaton.

A NFA is represented by a 5-tuple, M = (Q, Σ, Δ, q0, F), where
1. Q is a finite set of states 
2. Σ is a finite set of input symbols 
3. Δ is a transition function : Q × Σ → P(Q), P(Q) is the power set of Q
4. q0 ∈ Q is an initial (or start) state 
5. A set of states F distinguished as accepting (or final) states F ⊆ Q.

In DFA, for each input symbol, one can determine the state to which the machine will move. 
Hence, it is called Deterministic Automaton. As it has a finite number of states, the machine is called 
Deterministic Finite Machine or Deterministic Finite Automaton.

A DFA is represented by a 5-tuple, M = (Q, Σ, δ, q0, F), consisting of
1. Q is a finite set, whose elements are called states,
2. Σ is a finite set, called the alphabet; the elements of Σ are called symbols,
3. δ : Q × Σ → Q is a function, called the transition function,
4. q0 is an element of Q; it is called the start state,
5. F is a subset of Q; the elements of F are called accept states.

Properties:
1. NFA representations are more compact, but DFA's are easier to simulate.
2. There is an exponential size increase when an NFA is reduced to a DFA.
3. Every DFA is also an NFA however, the converse is not true.
